site/docs/configuration.md, before:

<!--
 - Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
 - contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
 - this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
 - The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
 - (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
 - the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
 -
 -   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
 -
 - Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 - distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 - WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 - See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 - limitations under the License.
 -->

# Configuration

## Table properties

Iceberg tables support table properties to configure table behavior, like the default split size for readers.

### Read properties

| Property                          | Default            | Description                                            |
| --------------------------------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| read.split.target-size            | 134217728 (128 MB) | Target size when combining data input splits           |
| read.split.metadata-target-size   | 33554432 (32 MB)   | Target size when combining metadata input splits       |
| read.split.planning-lookback      | 10                 | Number of bins to consider when combining input splits |
| read.split.open-file-cost         | 4194304 (4 MB)     | The estimated cost to open a file, used as a minimum weight when combining splits. |

### Write properties

| Property                           | Default            | Description                                        |
| ---------------------------------- | ------------------ | -------------------------------------------------- |
| write.format.default               | parquet            | Default file format for the table; parquet, avro, or orc |
| write.parquet.row-group-size-bytes | 134217728 (128 MB) | Parquet row group size                             |
| write.parquet.page-size-bytes      | 1048576 (1 MB)     | Parquet page size                                  |
| write.parquet.dict-size-bytes      | 2097152 (2 MB)     | Parquet dictionary page size                       |
| write.parquet.compression-codec    | gzip               | Parquet compression codec                          |
| write.parquet.compression-level    | null               | Parquet compression level                          |
| write.avro.compression-codec       | gzip               | Avro compression codec                             |
| write.location-provider.impl       | null               | Optional custom implemention for LocationProvider  |
| write.metadata.compression-codec   | none               | Metadata compression codec; none or gzip           |
| write.metadata.metrics.default     | truncate(16)       | Default metrics mode for all columns in the table; none, counts, truncate(length), or full |
| write.metadata.metrics.column.col1 | (not set)          | Metrics mode for column 'col1' to allow per-column tuning; none, counts, truncate(length), or full |
| write.target-file-size-bytes       | 536870912 (512 MB) | Controls the size of files generated to target about this many bytes |
| write.distribution-mode            | none               | Defines distribution of write data: __none__: don't shuffle rows; __hash__: hash distribute by partition key ; __range__: range distribute by partition key or sort key if table has an SortOrder |
| write.wap.enabled                  | false              | Enables write-audit-publish writes |
| write.summary.partition-limit      | 0                  | Includes partition-level summary stats in snapshot summaries if the changed partition count is less than this limit |
| write.metadata.delete-after-commit.enabled | false      | Controls whether to delete the oldest version metadata files after commit |
| write.metadata.previous-versions-max       | 100        | The max number of previous version metadata files to keep before deleting after commit |
| write.spark.fanout.enabled       | false        | Enables Partitioned-Fanout-Writer writes in Spark |

### Table behavior properties

| Property                           | Default          | Description                                                   |
| ---------------------------------- | ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| commit.retry.num-retries           | 4                | Number of times to retry a commit before failing              |
| commit.retry.min-wait-ms           | 100              | Minimum time in milliseconds to wait before retrying a commit |
| commit.retry.max-wait-ms           | 60000 (1 min)    | Maximum time in milliseconds to wait before retrying a commit |
| commit.retry.total-timeout-ms      | 1800000 (30 min) | Maximum time in milliseconds to wait before retrying a commit |
| commit.status-check.num-retries    | 3                | Number of times to check whether a commit succeeded after a connection is lost before failing due to an unknown commit state |
| commit.status-check.min-wait-ms    | 1000 (1s)        | Minimum time in milliseconds to wait before retrying a status-check |
| commit.status-check.max-wait-ms    | 60000 (1 min)    | Maximum time in milliseconds to wait before retrying a status-check |
| commit.status-check.total-timeout-ms| 1800000 (30 min) | Maximum time in milliseconds to wait before retrying a status-check |
| commit.manifest.target-size-bytes  | 8388608 (8 MB)   | Target size when merging manifest files                       |
| commit.manifest.min-count-to-merge | 100              | Minimum number of manifests to accumulate before merging      |
| commit.manifest-merge.enabled      | true             | Controls whether to automatically merge manifests on writes   |
| history.expire.max-snapshot-age-ms | 432000000 (5 days) | Default max age of snapshots to keep while expiring snapshots    |
| history.expire.min-snapshots-to-keep | 1                | Default min number of snapshots to keep while expiring snapshots |

### Compatibility flags

| Property                                      | Default  | Description                                                   |
| --------------------------------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| compatibility.snapshot-id-inheritance.enabled | false    | Enables committing snapshots without explicit snapshot IDs    |

## Catalog properties

Iceberg catalogs support using catalog properties to configure catalog behaviors. Here is a list of commonly used catalog properties:

| Property                          | Default            | Description                                            |
| --------------------------------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| catalog-impl                      | null               | a custom `Catalog` implementation to use by an engine  |
| io-impl                           | null               | a custom `FileIO` implementation to use in a catalog   |
| warehouse                         | null               | the root path of the data warehouse                    |
| uri                               | null               | a URI string, such as Hive metastore URI               |
| clients                           | 2                  | client pool size                                       |

`HadoopCatalog` and `HiveCatalog` can access the properties in their constructors.
Any other custom catalog can access the properties by implementing `Catalog.initialize(catalogName, catalogProperties)`.
The properties can be manually constructed or passed in from a compute engine like Spark or Flink.
Spark uses its session properties as catalog properties, see more details in the [Spark configuration](./spark-configuration.md#catalog-configuration) section.
Flink passes in catalog properties through `CREATE CATALOG` statement, see more details in the [Flink](../flink/#creating-catalogs-and-using-catalogs) section.

### Lock catalog properties

Here are the catalog properties related to locking. They are used by some catalog implementations to control the locking behavior during commits.

| Property                          | Default            | Description                                            |
| --------------------------------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| lock-impl                         | null               | a custom implementation of the lock manager, the actual interface depends on the catalog used  |
| lock.table                        | null               | an auxiliary table for locking, such as in [AWS DynamoDB lock manager](../aws/#dynamodb-for-commit-locking)  |
| lock.acquire-interval-ms          | 5 seconds          | the interval to wait between each attempt to acquire a lock  |
| lock.acquire-timeout-ms           | 3 minutes          | the maximum time to try acquiring a lock               |
| lock.heartbeat-interval-ms        | 3 seconds          | the interval to wait between each heartbeat after acquiring a lock  |
| lock.heartbeat-timeout-ms         | 15 seconds         | the maximum time without a heartbeat to consider a lock expired  |


## Hadoop configuration

The following properties from the Hadoop configuration are used by the Hive Metastore connector.

| Property                              | Default          | Description                                                                        |
| ------------------------------------- | ---------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| iceberg.hive.client-pool-size         | 5                | The size of the Hive client pool when tracking tables in HMS                       |
| iceberg.hive.lock-timeout-ms          | 180000 (3 min)   | Maximum time in milliseconds to acquire a lock                                     |
| iceberg.hive.lock-check-min-wait-ms   | 50               | Minimum time in milliseconds to check back on the status of lock acquisition       |
| iceberg.hive.lock-check-max-wait-ms   | 5000             | Maximum time in milliseconds to check back on the status of lock acquisition       |

Note: `iceberg.hive.lock-check-max-wait-ms` should be less than the [transaction timeout](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/Configuration+Properties#ConfigurationProperties-hive.txn.timeout) 
of the Hive Metastore (`hive.txn.timeout` or `metastore.txn.timeout` in the newer versions). Otherwise, the heartbeats on the lock (which happens during the lock checks) would end up expiring in the 
Hive Metastore before the lock is retried from Iceberg.

Commit message:

Core: Support writing parquet bloom filter

site/docs/configuration.md, after:

<!--
 - Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
 - contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
 - this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
 - The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
 - (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
 - the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
 -
 -   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
 -
 - Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 - distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 - WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 - See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 - limitations under the License.
 -->

# Configuration

## Table properties

Iceberg tables support table properties to configure table behavior, like the default split size for readers.

### Read properties

| Property                          | Default            | Description                                            |
| --------------------------------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| read.split.target-size            | 134217728 (128 MB) | Target size when combining data input splits           |
| read.split.metadata-target-size   | 33554432 (32 MB)   | Target size when combining metadata input splits       |
| read.split.planning-lookback      | 10                 | Number of bins to consider when combining input splits |
| read.split.open-file-cost         | 4194304 (4 MB)     | The estimated cost to open a file, used as a minimum weight when combining splits. |

### Write properties

| Property                           | Default            | Description                                        |
| ---------------------------------- | ------------------ | -------------------------------------------------- |
| write.format.default               | parquet            | Default file format for the table; parquet, avro, or orc |
| write.parquet.row-group-size-bytes | 134217728 (128 MB) | Parquet row group size                             |
| write.parquet.page-size-bytes      | 1048576 (1 MB)     | Parquet page size                                  |
| write.parquet.dict-size-bytes      | 2097152 (2 MB)     | Parquet dictionary page size                       |
| write.parquet.compression-codec    | gzip               | Parquet compression codec                          |
| write.parquet.compression-level    | null               | Parquet compression level                          |
| write.parquet.bloom-filter-enabled | false | Whether to enable writing bloom filter; If it is true, the bloom filter will be enable for all columns; If it is false, it will be disabled for all columns; It is also possible to enable it for some columns by specifying the column name within the property followed by #; For example, setting both `write.parquet.bloom-filter-enabled=true` and `write.parquet.bloom-filter-enabled#some_column=false` will enable bloom filter for all columns except `some_column` |
| write.parquet.bloom-filter-max-bytes | 1048576 (1 MB) | The maximum number of bytes for a bloom filter bitset |
| write.parquet.bloom-filter-expected-ndv | (not set) | The expected number of distinct values in a column, it is used to compute the optimal size of the bloom filter; Note that if this property is not set, the bloom filter will use the maximum size; If this property is set for a column, then no need to enable the bloom filter with `write.parquet.bloom-filter-enabled` property; For example, setting `write.parquet.bloom-filter-expected-ndv#some_column=200` will enable bloom filter for `some_column` with expected number of distinct values equals to 200 |
| write.avro.compression-codec       | gzip               | Avro compression codec                             |
| write.location-provider.impl       | null               | Optional custom implemention for LocationProvider  |
| write.metadata.compression-codec   | none               | Metadata compression codec; none or gzip           |
| write.metadata.metrics.default     | truncate(16)       | Default metrics mode for all columns in the table; none, counts, truncate(length), or full |
| write.metadata.metrics.column.col1 | (not set)          | Metrics mode for column 'col1' to allow per-column tuning; none, counts, truncate(length), or full |
| write.target-file-size-bytes       | 536870912 (512 MB) | Controls the size of files generated to target about this many bytes |
| write.distribution-mode            | none               | Defines distribution of write data: __none__: don't shuffle rows; __hash__: hash distribute by partition key ; __range__: range distribute by partition key or sort key if table has an SortOrder |
| write.wap.enabled                  | false              | Enables write-audit-publish writes |
| write.summary.partition-limit      | 0                  | Includes partition-level summary stats in snapshot summaries if the changed partition count is less than this limit |
| write.metadata.delete-after-commit.enabled | false      | Controls whether to delete the oldest version metadata files after commit |
| write.metadata.previous-versions-max       | 100        | The max number of previous version metadata files to keep before deleting after commit |
| write.spark.fanout.enabled       | false        | Enables Partitioned-Fanout-Writer writes in Spark |

### Table behavior properties

| Property                           | Default          | Description                                                   |
| ---------------------------------- | ---------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| commit.retry.num-retries           | 4                | Number of times to retry a commit before failing              |
| commit.retry.min-wait-ms           | 100              | Minimum time in milliseconds to wait before retrying a commit |
| commit.retry.max-wait-ms           | 60000 (1 min)    | Maximum time in milliseconds to wait before retrying a commit |
| commit.retry.total-timeout-ms      | 1800000 (30 min) | Maximum time in milliseconds to wait before retrying a commit |
| commit.status-check.num-retries    | 3                | Number of times to check whether a commit succeeded after a connection is lost before failing due to an unknown commit state |
| commit.status-check.min-wait-ms    | 1000 (1s)        | Minimum time in milliseconds to wait before retrying a status-check |
| commit.status-check.max-wait-ms    | 60000 (1 min)    | Maximum time in milliseconds to wait before retrying a status-check |
| commit.status-check.total-timeout-ms| 1800000 (30 min) | Maximum time in milliseconds to wait before retrying a status-check |
| commit.manifest.target-size-bytes  | 8388608 (8 MB)   | Target size when merging manifest files                       |
| commit.manifest.min-count-to-merge | 100              | Minimum number of manifests to accumulate before merging      |
| commit.manifest-merge.enabled      | true             | Controls whether to automatically merge manifests on writes   |
| history.expire.max-snapshot-age-ms | 432000000 (5 days) | Default max age of snapshots to keep while expiring snapshots    |
| history.expire.min-snapshots-to-keep | 1                | Default min number of snapshots to keep while expiring snapshots |

### Compatibility flags

| Property                                      | Default  | Description                                                   |
| --------------------------------------------- | -------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| compatibility.snapshot-id-inheritance.enabled | false    | Enables committing snapshots without explicit snapshot IDs    |

## Catalog properties

Iceberg catalogs support using catalog properties to configure catalog behaviors. Here is a list of commonly used catalog properties:

| Property                          | Default            | Description                                            |
| --------------------------------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| catalog-impl                      | null               | a custom `Catalog` implementation to use by an engine  |
| io-impl                           | null               | a custom `FileIO` implementation to use in a catalog   |
| warehouse                         | null               | the root path of the data warehouse                    |
| uri                               | null               | a URI string, such as Hive metastore URI               |
| clients                           | 2                  | client pool size                                       |

`HadoopCatalog` and `HiveCatalog` can access the properties in their constructors.
Any other custom catalog can access the properties by implementing `Catalog.initialize(catalogName, catalogProperties)`.
The properties can be manually constructed or passed in from a compute engine like Spark or Flink.
Spark uses its session properties as catalog properties, see more details in the [Spark configuration](./spark-configuration.md#catalog-configuration) section.
Flink passes in catalog properties through `CREATE CATALOG` statement, see more details in the [Flink](../flink/#creating-catalogs-and-using-catalogs) section.

### Lock catalog properties

Here are the catalog properties related to locking. They are used by some catalog implementations to control the locking behavior during commits.

| Property                          | Default            | Description                                            |
| --------------------------------- | ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| lock-impl                         | null               | a custom implementation of the lock manager, the actual interface depends on the catalog used  |
| lock.table                        | null               | an auxiliary table for locking, such as in [AWS DynamoDB lock manager](../aws/#dynamodb-for-commit-locking)  |
| lock.acquire-interval-ms          | 5 seconds          | the interval to wait between each attempt to acquire a lock  |
| lock.acquire-timeout-ms           | 3 minutes          | the maximum time to try acquiring a lock               |
| lock.heartbeat-interval-ms        | 3 seconds          | the interval to wait between each heartbeat after acquiring a lock  |
| lock.heartbeat-timeout-ms         | 15 seconds         | the maximum time without a heartbeat to consider a lock expired  |


## Hadoop configuration

The following properties from the Hadoop configuration are used by the Hive Metastore connector.

| Property                              | Default          | Description                                                                        |
| ------------------------------------- | ---------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| iceberg.hive.client-pool-size         | 5                | The size of the Hive client pool when tracking tables in HMS                       |
| iceberg.hive.lock-timeout-ms          | 180000 (3 min)   | Maximum time in milliseconds to acquire a lock                                     |
| iceberg.hive.lock-check-min-wait-ms   | 50               | Minimum time in milliseconds to check back on the status of lock acquisition       |
| iceberg.hive.lock-check-max-wait-ms   | 5000             | Maximum time in milliseconds to check back on the status of lock acquisition       |

Note: `iceberg.hive.lock-check-max-wait-ms` should be less than the [transaction timeout](https://cwiki.apache.org/confluence/display/Hive/Configuration+Properties#ConfigurationProperties-hive.txn.timeout) 
of the Hive Metastore (`hive.txn.timeout` or `metastore.txn.timeout` in the newer versions). Otherwise, the heartbeats on the lock (which happens during the lock checks) would end up expiring in the 
Hive Metastore before the lock is retried from Iceberg.
